# Human Tonsil ILC3 pCHi-C Analysis: Run [RELI](https://github.com/WeirauchLab/RELI)
___

## Overview

This repo will walk through the analysis of pCHi-C data generated by Mikhail Spivakov's group for Human Tonsil ILC3. We will also analyze Human Venous Blood CD4+ alpha/beta T-cells as a positive control sample.

 All data were aligned to the hg38 reference genome. For analysis with RELI, the final genomic intersections between promoter-interactions and regulatory regions were lifted over to hg19 for compatibility.

The analysis for each data type is described below:

1. [`ChIP-seq Analysis`](docs/chipseq.md)
2. [`ATAC-seq Analysis`](docs/atacseq.md)
3. [`RNA-seq Analysis`](docs/rnaseq.md)
4. [`pcHi-C Analysis`](docs/pchic.md)
5. [`pcHi-C integrated with RNA-seq`](docs/expression_analysis.md)
6. [`Feature intersections prepared for RELI input`](scripts/Prepare_RELI_inputs_final.ipynb)
7. [`Run RELI`](scripts/run_RELI)

## Directory Description

### [`./data`](./data)

The `./data` diretory contains the input and output data produced with this repository. See the [data directry readme](./data/readme.md) for detailed description of files.

### [`./scripts`](./scripts)

The scripts directory contains the jupyter notebook used to generate RELI input, and the scripts used to run RELI. 

script **Prepare_RELI_inputs_final.ipynb**
- The PIR sets were the union of PCHi-C interactions (CHiCAGO score ≥ 5, binned to 5 kb or DpnII fragment-level resolution) and  ABCC enhancers, excluding any trans-chromosomal interactions.
- Regulatory elements (RE) were then defined as the union of peaks of open chromatin and H3K27ac in ILC3 and CD4+ T cells (using ATAC-seq and ChIP-seq data as above).
- The true intersection between these regulatory elements and PIRs in each cell type was then determined using pybedtools intersect.
- The coordinates for these regions were lifted over from hg38 to hg19 using UCSC liftOver (v. 377), then sorted and merged for use with RELI.

Additional scripts within **run_RELI**
- These scripts were used to run RELI itself. For more information, please see the [RELI repository](https://github.com/WeirauchLab/RELI)

### [`./python`](./python)

The python notebook has all of the python code used to generate the feature files.

### [`./r`](./r)

The `r` directory has the code for performing DESEQ2 analysis and plotting some data.

### [`./docs`](./docs)

The `./docs directory has the markdown files.
